[TOC]

### NPM

#### Installing npm

Install Node, npm will be installed with Node.

`node -v`

`npm -v`

#### npm init

`npm init`: There will be a folder and a file generated, **node_modules** and **package.json**

**node_modules**

Whenever you install a package, the source code for that package will be put inside of the `node_modules` directory. Then, whenever you import a module into your project that isn’t a file path, i.e. `import React from 'react'`, your app will look to `node_modules` for the source.

**package.json**

You can think of your `package.json` file as containing all of the meta information for your project. It contains information like the project’s name, author, description, and most important, the list of packages (as well as what versions) that your project depends on as well as how to run your project.

1. dependencies

   These are the packages your application needs to run.

2. devDependencies

   These are the packages your application needs during development.

#### npm install

If someone downloads your project and runs `npm install`, npm will download all of the packages inside both `dependencies` and `devDependencies` and place them into the `node_modules` directory.

`npm install react` : it will add react as a property on `dependencies`

`npm install react --save-dev` : it will add react as a property on `devDependencies`

#### Scripts

You can use the `scripts` property to automate tasks. In the example above, we have two, `start` and `build`.

`npm run [NAME OF SCRIPT]`

#### Publishing Packages

There wouldn’t be over 800,000 packages on the npm registry if it wasn’t easy to publish one. All you need to publish a package is an account on npm, a package.json file with `name`, `version`, and `main` (which points to the entry point of your package) properties.

Once you have those things, in your command line run `npm login` to login then `npm publish` to publish your package.

There are more advanced features about publishing that we won’t go into in this post, but if you’re curious, you can check out their [official guide](https://docs.npmjs.com/packages-and-modules/contributing-packages-to-the-registry).

#### Versioning

`v1.2.3`

(major versions).(minor versions).(patch versions)

`^` : keep the major version

`~` : keep the major and minor version 

[npm semver calculator](https://semver.npmjs.com)



### Webpack

#### Installing webpack

`npm install webpack webpack-cli --save-dev`

#### webpack.config.js

After installing web pack, create a `webpack.config.js` file, all the configuration will be put int this file.

`webpack.config.js ` will export an object.

```javascript
// webpack.config.js
module.exports = {}
```

Webpack needs to know three things:

1. The entry point of your application
2. Which transformations, if any, to make on your code
3. The location to put the newly formed bundle(s)

##### The entry point

Whenever your application is composed of modules, there’s always a single module that is the entry point of your application. It’s the module that kicks everything off. Typically, it’s an `index.js` file. Something like this.

```js
index.js
  imports about.js
  imports dashboard.js
    imports graph.js
    imports auth.js
      imports api.js
```

If we give webpack the path to this entry file, it’ll use that to create the dependency graph of our application (much like we did above, except… better). To do that, you add an `entry` property to your webpack config which points to your entry file.

```js
// webpack.config.js

module.exports = {
  entry: './app/index.js'
}
```



##### Transformations with Loaders

Now that webpack knows the entry file, the next thing we need to tell it is what transformations to run on our code. To do this, we’ll use what are called “loaders”.

Out of the box, when webpack is building its dependency graph by examining all of your `import`/`require()` statements, it’s only able to process JavaScript and JSON files.

```js
import auth from './api/auth' // 👍
import config from './utils/config.json' // 👍
import './styles.css' // ⁉️
import logo from './assets/logo.svg' // ⁉️
```

There’s a very good chance that you’re going to want your dependency tree to be made up of more than just JS and JSON files - i.e., you’re going to want to be able to import `.css` files, `.svg` files, images, etc, as we’re doing above. This is where “loaders” can help us out. The primary purpose of a loader, as the name suggests, is to give webpack the ability to process more than just JavaScript and JSON files.

The first step to adding any loader is to download it. Because we want to add the ability to `import` `.svg` files in our app, we’ll download the `svg-inline-loader` from npm.

```bash
npm install svg-inline-loader --save-dev
```

Next, we need to add it to our webpack config. All of the information for your loaders will go into an array of objects under `module.rules`.

```js
// webpack.config.js

module.exports = {
  entry: './app/index.js',
  module: {
    rules: []
  }
}
```

Now there are two pieces of information we need to give webpack about each loader. First, the type of file we want to run the loader on (in our case, all `.svg` files). Second, the loader to use on that file type (in our case, `svg-inline-loader`).

To do this, we’ll have an object with two properties, `test` and `use`. `test` will be a regex to match the file path and `use` will be the name of the loader we want to use.

```js
// webpack.config.js

module.exports = {
  entry: './app/index.js',
  module: {
    rules: [
      { test: /\.svg$/, use: 'svg-inline-loader' }
    ]
  }
}
```

Now anywhere in our app, we’ll be able to import `.svg` files. What about our `.css` files though? Let’s add a loader for that as well. We’ll use the `css-loader`.

```bash
npm install css-loader --save-dev
// webpack.config.js

module.exports = {
  entry: './app/index.js',
  module: {
    rules: [
      { test: /\.svg$/, use: 'svg-inline-loader' },
      { test: /\.css$/, use: 'css-loader' }
    ]
  }
}
```

Now anywhere in our app, we can import `.svg` and `.css` files. However, there’s still one more loader we need to add to get our styles to work properly. Right now, because of our `css-loader`, we’re able to `import` `.css` files. However, that doesn’t mean those styles are being injected into the DOM. What we really want to do is `import` a CSS file then have webpack put all of that CSS in a `<style>` tag in the DOM so they’re active on the page. To do that, we’ll use the `style-loader`.

```bash
npm install style-loader --save-dev
// webpack.config.js

module.exports = {
  entry: './app/index.js',
  module: {
    rules: [
      { test: /\.svg$/, use: 'svg-inline-loader' },
      { test: /\.css$/, use: [ 'style-loader', 'css-loader' ] }
    ]
  }
}
```

Notice, because we now have two loaders for our `.css` rule, we change `use` to be an array. Also, notice that we have `style-loader` before `css-loader`. This is important. Webpack will process those in reverse order. So `css-loader` will interpret the `import './styles.css'` line then `style-loader` will inject that CSS into the DOM.

------

As we just saw with `style-loader`, loaders can do more than just allow you to `import` certain file types. They’re also able to run transformations on files before they get added to the final output bundle. The most popular is transforming “next generation JavaScript” to the JavaScript of today that browsers can understand using [Babel](https://babeljs.io/). To do this, you can use the `babel-loader` on every `.js` file.

```bash
npm install babel-loader --save-dev
// webpack.config.js

module.exports = {
  entry: './app/index.js',
  module: {
    rules: [
      { test: /\.svg$/, use: 'svg-inline-loader' },
      { test: /\.css$/, use: [ 'style-loader', 'css-loader' ] },
      { test: /\.(js)$/, use: 'babel-loader' }
    ]
  }
}
```

------

There are loaders for just about anything you’d need to do. You can check out the [full list here](https://webpack.js.org/loaders/).



##### The output

Now that webpack knows the entry file and what loaders to use, the next thing we need to tell it is where to put the bundle it creates. To do this, you add an `output` property to your webpack config.

```js
// webpack.config.js

const path = require('path')

module.exports = {
  entry: './app/index.js',
  module: {
    rules: [
      { test: /\.svg$/, use: 'svg-inline-loader' },
      { test: /\.css$/, use: [ 'style-loader', 'css-loader' ] },
      { test: /\.(js)$/, use: 'babel-loader' }
    ]
  },
  output: {
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
    filename: 'index_bundle.js'
  }
}
```

So the full process looks something like this.

1. webpack grabs the entry point located at `./app/index.js`.
2. It examines all of our `import` and `require` statements and creates a dependency graph.
3. webpack starts creating a bundle, whenever it comes across a path we have a loader for, it transforms the code according to that loader then adds it to the bundle.
4. It takes the final bundle and outputs it at `dist/index_bundle.js`.



#### Plugins

Unlike loaders, plugins allow you to execute certain tasks **after** the bundle has been created. Because of this, these tasks can be on the bundle itself, or just to your codebase.

##### HtmlWebpackPlugin

Earlier we saw that the main benefit of webpack was that it would generate a single bundle for us that we could then use to reference inside of our main `index.html` page.

What `HtmlWebpackPlugin` does is it will generate this `index.html` page for us, stick it inside of the same directory where our bundle is put, and automatically include a `<script>` tag which references the newly generated bundle.

So in our example, because we’ve told webpack to name the final bundle `index_bundle.js` and put it in a folder called `dist`, when `HtmlWebpackPlugin` runs, it’ll create a new `index.html` file, put it in `dist`, and include a script to reference the bundle, `<script src='index_bundle.js'></script>`. Pretty nice, right? Because this file is being generated for us by `HtmlWebpackPlugin`, even if we change the output path or file name of our bundle, `HtmlWebpackPlugin` will have that information and it’ll adapt accordingly.

Now, how we do adjust our webpack config in order to utilize `HtmlWebpackPlugin`? As always, we first need to download it.

```bash
npm install html-webpack-plugin --save-dev
```

Next, we add a `plugins` property which is an array to our webpack config.

```js
// webpack.config.js

const path = require('path')

module.exports = {
  entry: './app/index.js',
  module: {
    rules: [
      { test: /\.svg$/, use: 'svg-inline-loader' },
      { test: /\.css$/, use: [ 'style-loader', 'css-loader' ] },
      { test: /\.(js)$/, use: 'babel-loader' }
    ]
  },
  output: {
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
    filename: 'index_bundle.js'
  },
  plugins: []
}
```

Then in order to use `HtmlWebpackPlugin`, we create a new instance of it inside of our `plugins` array.

```js
// webpack.config.js

const path = require('path')
const HtmlWebpackPlugin = require('html-webpack-plugin')

module.exports = {
  entry: './app/index.js',
  module: {
    rules: [
      { test: /\.svg$/, use: 'svg-inline-loader' },
      { test: /\.css$/, use: [ 'style-loader', 'css-loader' ] },
      { test: /\.(js)$/, use: 'babel-loader' }
    ]
  },
  output: {
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
    filename: 'index_bundle.js'
  },
  plugins: [
    new HtmlWebpackPlugin()
  ]
}
```



##### EnvironmentPlugin

If you’re using React, you’ll want to set `process.env.NODE_ENV` to `production` before you deploy your code. This tells React to build in production mode which will strip out any developer features like warnings. Webpack makes this simple by providing a plugin called `EnvironmentPlugin`. It comes as part of the `webpack` namespace so you don’t need to download it.

```js
// webpack.config.js

const path = require('path')
const HtmlWebpackPlugin = require('html-webpack-plugin')
const webpack = require('webpack')

module.exports = {
  entry: './app/index.js',
  module: {
    rules: [
      { test: /\.svg$/, use: 'svg-inline-loader' },
      { test: /\.css$/, use: [ 'style-loader', 'css-loader' ] },
      { test: /\.(js)$/, use: 'babel-loader' }
    ]
  },
  output: {
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
    filename: 'index_bundle.js'
  },
  plugins: [
    new HtmlWebpackPlugin(),
    new webpack.EnvironmentPlugin({
      'NODE_ENV': 'production'
    })
  ]
}
```

Now, anywhere in our application, we’ll be able to tell if we’re running in production mode by using `process.env.NODE_ENV`.

------

`HtmlWebpackPlugin` and `EnvironmentPlugin` are just a small taste of what you can do with webpack’s plugin system. Here’s a full list of [officially supported plugins](https://webpack.js.org/plugins/).



##### Mode

Whenever you build your app for production, there are a few steps you want to take. We just learned about one of them which was setting `process.env.NODE_ENV` to `production`. Another would be minifying your code and stripping out comments to reduce the bundle size.

Utilizing plugins for each one of these production tasks would work, but there’s a much easier way. In your webpack config, you can set the `mode` property to `development` or `production` depending on which environment you’re in.

```js
// webpack.config.js

const path = require('path')
const HtmlWebpackPlugin = require('html-webpack-plugin')

module.exports = {
  entry: './app/index.js',
  module: {
    rules: [
      { test: /\.svg$/, use: 'svg-inline-loader' },
      { test: /\.css$/, use: [ 'style-loader', 'css-loader' ] },
      { test: /\.(js)$/, use: 'babel-loader' }
    ]
  },
  output: {
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
    filename: 'index_bundle.js'
  },
  plugins: [
    new HtmlWebpackPlugin()
  ],
  mode: 'production'
}
```

Notice we were able to get rid of our `EnvironmentPlugin`. The reason for that is by setting `mode` to `production`, webpack will automatically set `process.env.NODE_ENV` to `production`. It will also minify our code and strip out warnings.



##### Running webpack

At this point, we have a pretty solid grasp on how webpack works and how to configure it, the only other thing we need to do now is actually run it.

Assuming you’re using npm and have a `package.json` file, you can create a `script` to execute `webpack`.

```json
// package.json

"scripts": {
  "build": "webpack"
}
```

Now whenever you run `npm run build` from the command line, `webpack` will execute and create an optimized bundle named `index_bundle.js` and put it inside of the `dist` directory.



##### Production vs Development Modes

At this point, there’s nothing more about webpack itself that we’re going to cover. However, it is important that you understand how to easily switch between running in `development` mode and running in `production` mode.

As we talked about, when we’re building for `production`, we want everything to be as optimized as possible. When we’re building for `development`, the opposite is true.

To make it easy to switch between `production` and `development` builds, we’ll have two different commands we can run via our npm `scripts`.

`npm run build` will build our app for production.

`npm run start` will start a development server which will automatically regenerate our bundle whenever we make a change to our code.

If you’ll remember, we hardcoded `mode` to `production` inside of our webpack config. However, we only want to run in `production` mode when we run `npm run build`. If we run `npm run start`, we want `mode` set to `development`. To fix this, let’s adjust our `scripts.build` property in our `package.json` file to pass along an environment variable.

```json
"scripts": {
  "build": "NODE_ENV='production' webpack",
}
```

> If you’re on Windows, the command is a bit different: `"SET NODE_ENV='production' && webpack"`

Now, inside of our webpack config, we can toggle `mode` based on `process.env.NODE_ENV`.

```js
// webpack.config.js

...

  mode: process.env.NODE_ENV === 'production' ? 'production' : 'development'
}
```

Now whenever we want to build our app for production, we just run `npm run build` in our command line. That will generate an `index.html` file and an `index_bundle.js` file and put them in the `dist` directory.

###### webpack DevServer

Unlike building for production, when we’re developing, it’s all about speed. We don’t want to have to re-run `webpack` and wait for it to rebuild the `dist` directory every time we change our code. This is where the `webpack-dev-server` package can help us out.

As the name implies, `webpack-dev-server` is a development server for webpack. Instead of generating a `dist` directory, it’ll keep track of your files in memory and serve them via a local server. More than that, it supports live reloading. What that means is whenever you make a change in your code, `webpack-dev-server` will quickly recompile your code and reload the browser with those changes.

As always, to use it we first need to install it.

```bash
npm install webpack-dev-server --save-dev
```

Then all we need to do is update our `start` script to run `webpack-dev-server`.

```json
"scripts": {
  "build": "NODE_ENV='production' webpack",
  "start": "webpack-dev-server"
}
```

Just like that, we have two commands, one for creating a development server and one for building our app for production.



### First Component Sample Code

https://github.com/ethanzhoujie/github_battle/tree/1-first-component



### JSX

#### Variables in JSX

Whenever you want to use an expression (something that produces a value) in JSX, you need to wrap the expression in single curly braces, `{}`.

```jsx
render() {
  const name = 'Tyler'
  
  return (
  	<div>
    	<h1>Hello, {name}</h1>
      <p>Today is {new Date().toLocaleDateString()}</p>
      <p>What is 2 + 2 ? {2 + 2}</p>
    </div>
  )
}
```



#### Render nothing

If you want React to render nothing, return `null`.

```jsx
render() {
	if (isLoading() === true) {
  	   return null 
  }
  return (
  	...
  )
}
```



#### Conditional Rendering

##### if/else

```jsx
render() {
  const authed = isAuthed()

  if (authed === true) {
    return <h1>Welcome back!</h1>
  } else {
    return <h1>Login to see your dashboard</h1>
  }
}
```



##### Ternary Operator

```jsx
render() {
  return isAuthed() === true
    ? <h1>Welcome back!</h1>
    : <h1>Login to see your dashboard</h1>
}
```

any expression needs to be wrapped in `{}`.

```jsx
render() {
  return (
  	<div>
    	<Logo />
      {isAuthed() === true ? <h1>Welcome back!</h1> : <h1>Login dashboard</h1>}
    </div>
  )
}
```



##### Logical && Operator

```jsx
if (user && authed) {}
```

```jsx
render() {
	return (
  	<div>
    	<Logo />
      {showWarning() === true && <Warning />}
    </div>
  )
}
```



#### React Fragments

Return one top-level element from a component.

```jsx
// Adjacent JSX elements must be wrapped in an enclosing tag.
render() {
  const name = 'Tyler'

  return (
    <h1>Hello, {name}</h1>
    <p>Today is {getDay()}</p>
    <p>What is 2 + 2? {2 + 2}</p>
  )
}
```

Could use a `div` to wrap them all.

```jsx
render() {
  const name = 'Tyler'
  
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Hello, {name}</h1>
      <p>Today is {getDay()}</p>
      <p>What is 2 + 2? {2 + 2}</p>
    </div>    
  )
}
```

or, if want to return adjacent elements but don’t want to change your markup, wrap them in `<React.Fragment>`

```jsx
render() {
  const name = 'Tyler'
  
  return (
    <React.Fragment>
      <h1>Hello, {name}</h1>
      <p>Today is {getDay()}</p>
      <p>What is 2 + 2? {2 + 2}</p>
    </React.Fragment>    
  )
}
```



#### Capitalization

Whenever you create a React component, you need to capitalize it. Otherwise, React will think it’s a built-in HTML element.



### React Elements vs React Components

A few months ago I had, what I thought, was a simple question that I [posted to Twitter](https://twitter.com/tylermcginnis/status/771087982858113024).

```jsx
// Function Definition
function add (x, y) {
  return x + y
}

// Function Invocation
add(1,2)

// Component Definition
class Icon extends Component

// Component Invocation???
<Icon />
```

What surprised me wasn’t the joint confusion around this question, but instead was the number of inaccurate responses I received.

> Instances / Instantiation
>
> Rendering
>
> Evaluation
>
> Invocation
>
> “Using it :)”

The primary reason for the confusion is that there’s an often un-talked about abstraction layer between JSX and what’s actually going on in React land. To answer this question, we need to take a deep dive into that abstraction.

Let’s start by looking at the absolute fundamentals of React. What is React? It’s a library for building user interfaces. No matter how complex React or the React ecosystem seem to be, this is React at its core — building UIs. With this in mind, we arrive at our first definition, an **Element**. Simply put, *a React element describes what you want to see on the screen*. Not so simply put, *a React element is an object representation of a DOM node*. Notice I used the word *describe*. It’s important to note that a React element isn’t actually the thing you’ll see on your screen. Instead, it’s just an object representation of it. There are a few reasons for this. The first is that JavaScript objects are lightweight — React can create and destroy these elements without too much overhead. The second reason is React can analyze the object, diff it with the previous object representation to see what changed. Then, React can update the actual DOM only where those changes occurred. This has some performance upsides to it.

In order to create our object representation of a DOM node (aka a React element), we can use React’s `createElement` method.

```js
const element = React.createElement(
  'div',
  {id: 'login-btn'},
  'Login'
)
```

`createElement` takes in three arguments. The first is a tag name string (`div`, `span`, etc), the second is any attributes you want the element to have, the third is the contents or the children of the element, in this case, the text “Login”. The `createElement` invocation above is going to return an object that looks like this.

```js
{
  type: 'div',
  props: {
    children: 'Login',
    id: 'login-btn'
  }
}
```

When it’s rendered to the DOM (using `ReactDOM.render`), we’ll have a new DOM node that looks like this,

```markup
<div id='login-btn'>Login</div>
```

What’s interesting about learning React is that typically the first thing you’re taught are components. “Components are the building blocks of React”. Notice, however, that we started this post with elements. The reason for this is because once you understand elements, understanding components is a smooth transition. *A component is a function or a Class which optionally accepts input and returns a React element.*

```js
function Button ({ onLogin }) {
  return React.createElement(
    'div',
    {id: 'login-btn', onClick: onLogin},
    'Login'
  )
}
```

By definition, we have a `Button` component which accepts an `onLogin` input and returns a React element. One thing to note is that our `Button` component receives an `onLogin` method as its prop. To pass that along to our object representation of the DOM, we pass it along as the second argument to `createElement`, just as we did our `id` attribute.

Let’s go deeper.

Up until this point we’ve only covered creating React elements with the `type` property of native HTML elements (`span`, `div`, etc), but you can also pass in other React components to the first argument of `createElement`.

```js
const element = React.createElement(
  User,
  {name: 'Tyler McGinnis'},
  null
)
```

However, unlike with an HTML tag name, if React sees a class or a function as the first argument, it will then check to see what element it renders, given the corresponding props. React will continue to do this until there are no more `createElement` invocations which have a class or a function as their first argument. Let’s take a look at this in action.

```js
function Button ({ addFriend }) {
  return React.createElement(
    "button",
    { onClick: addFriend },
    "Add Friend"
  )
}

function User({ name, addFriend }) {
  return React.createElement(
    "div",
    null,
    React.createElement(
      "p",
      null,
      name
    ),
    React.createElement(Button, { addFriend })
  )
}
```

Above we have two components. A `Button` and a `User`. `User`’s object representation of the DOM will be a `div` with two children, a `p` which wraps the user’s `name` and a `Button` component. Now, let’s swap out the createElement invocations with what they return,

```js
function Button ({ addFriend }) {
  return {
    type: 'button',
    props: {
      onClick: addFriend,
      children: 'Add Friend'
    }
  }
}

function User ({ name, addFriend }) {
  return {
    type: 'div',
    props: {
      children: [
        {
          type: 'p',
          props: {
            children: name
          }
        },
        {
          type: Button,
          props: {
            addFriend
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

You’ll notice in the above code we have four different type properties, `button`, `div`, `p`, and `Button`. When React sees an element with a function or class type (like our `type: Button` above), it will then consult with that component to know which element it returns, given the corresponding props. With that in mind, at the end of this process, React has a full object representation of the DOM tree. In our example, that will look like this,

```js
{
  type: 'div',
  props: {
    children: [
      {
        type: 'p',
        props: {
          children: 'Tyler McGinnis'
        }
      },
      {
        type: 'button',
        props: {
          onClick: addFriend,
          children: 'Add Friend'
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

This whole process is called reconciliation in React and it’s triggered every time `setState` or `ReactDOM.render` is called.

So now let’s again take a look at our initial question that sparked this blog post,

```jsx
// Function Definition
function add (x, y) {
  return x + y
}

// Function Invocation
add(1,2)

// Component Definition
function Icon () {}

// Component Invocation???
<Icon />
```

At this point, we have all the knowledge we need to answer this question except for one crucial piece. Odds are, if you’ve been using React for any amount of time, you don’t use `React.createElement` to create your object representations of the DOM. Instead, you’re probably using JSX. Earlier I wrote, “The primary reason for the confusion is that there’s an often un-talked about abstraction layer between JSX and what’s actually going on in React land”. This abstraction layer is that *JSX is always going to get compiled to `React.createElement` invocations (typically) via Babel.*

Looking at our earlier example, this code

```js
function Button ({ addFriend }) {
  return React.createElement(
    "button",
    { onClick: addFriend },
    "Add Friend"
  )
}

function User({ name, addFriend }) {
  return React.createElement(
    "div",
    null,
    React.createElement(
      "p",
      null,
      name
    ),
    React.createElement(Button, { addFriend })
  )
}
```

is the result of this JSX being compiled.

```jsx
function Button ({ addFriend }) {
  return (
    <button onClick={addFriend}>Add Friend</button>
  )
}

function User ({ name, addFriend }) {
  return (
    <div>
      <p>{name}</p>
      <Button addFriend={addFriend}/>
    </div>
  )
}
```

So finally, what do we call it when we write out our component like this, `<Icon/>`? We can call it “creating an element” because after the JSX is compiled, that’s exactly what’s happening.

```js
React.createElement(Icon, null)
```

All of these examples are “creating a React element”.

```jsx
React.createElement(
  'div',
  { className: 'container' },
  'Hello!'
)

<div className='container'>Hello!</div>

<Hello />
```