[toc]

### PropTypes

The package we’ll use to declare types for our props is, naturally, called [`prop-types`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/prop-types).

Here’s the big picture. Whenever you create a component that accepts props, you’ll add a static `propTypes` property to that component. `propTypes` will be an object whose keys represent the props the component accepts and whose values represent the data types for those props. During development, if a prop being passed to a component doesn’t match the data type specified in `propTypes`, a warning will be shown in the console.

Let’s start with a simple `Hello` component that takes in one prop, `name` which is a string and is required.

```jsx
import React from 'react'
import PropTypes from 'prop-types'

export default function Hello ({ name }) {
  return <h1>Hello, {name}</h1>
}

Hello.propTypes = {
  name: PropTypes.string.isRequired
}
```

A few things to note here. First, the naming conventions. `PropTypes` (capital `P`) is what we call the object being exported from the `prop-types` package. `propTypes` (lower case `p`) is the name of the static property we add to our component. Second, is how we use the `PropTypes` object to declare the type of prop. In our example, we’re saying that anytime you use the `Hello` component, it’s required that you pass to it a `name` prop which is a string. If `name` is not included as a prop or it’s not of type `string`, a warning will be shown in the console.

```jsx
<Hello name='Tyler' /> // 👍

<Hello /> 
// Warning: Failed prop type: The prop `name` is marked as required in `Hello`, but its value is `undefined`.

<Hello name={true}/> 
// Warning: Failed prop type: Invalid prop `name` of type `boolean` supplied to `Hello`, expected `string`.
```

Class components follow the same syntax. You add `propTypes` as a static property on the class itself.

```js
class Hello extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return <h1>Hello, {this.props.name}</h1>
  }
}

Hello.propTypes = {
  name: PropTypes.string.isRequired
}
```

Now that you understand how to validate strings, let’s look at the rest of the `prop-types` API. For the most part, it’s straight forward. There are a few gotchas though. To do this, we can look at every property on the `PropTypes` object.

> Note that by default, every prop is optional. To make them required, append `.isRequired` as we did above.

> You don’t need to memorize all of these. In fact, I probably wouldn’t even read this whole thing. Skim it then use it more as a reference guide if you need it. The biggest gotchas are `func` and `bool` so check those out.

#### PropTypes.any

The prop being passed into the component can be of any data type. Use this sparingly as it neglects all the benefits of using PropTypes.

#### PropTypes.array

The prop being passed into the component must be an array.

#### PropTypes.arrayOf:

The prop being passed into the component must be an array of a certain type. For example, if you had a prop that needed to be an array of strings, you’d use `PropTypes.arrayOf(PropTypes.string)`.

```jsx
...

List.propTypes = {
  friends: PropTypes.arrayOf(PropTypes.string)
}

<List friends={['Mikenzi', 'Cash', 'Jake']}/>
```

#### PropTypes.bool

The prop being passed into the component must be a boolean.

#### PropTypes.element

The prop being passed into the component must be a React element.

```jsx
...

Dashboard.propTypes = {
  header: PropTypes.element
}

<Dashboard header={<Navbar />} />
```

#### PropTypes.exact

The prop being passed into the component must be an object with a specific shape. Any extra properties will throw an error.

```jsx
...

Header.propTypes = {
  user: PropTypes.exact({
    name: PropTypes.string,
    age: PropTypes.number,
    submit: PropTypes.func,
  })
}

<Header
  user={{
    name: 'Tyler',
    age: 28,
    submit: () => ({})
  }}
/>
```

#### PropTypes.func

The prop being passed into the component must be a function.

#### PropTypes.instanceOf

The prop being passed into the component must be an instance of a certain class.

```jsx
class User {
  ...
}

Header.propTypes = {
  user: PropTypes.instanceOf(User)
}

const tyler = new User('tyler')
<Header user={tyler} />
```

#### PropTypes.number

The prop being passed into the component must be a number.

#### PropTypes.object

The prop being passed into the component must be an object.

#### PropTypes.objectOf

The prop being passed into the component must be an object whose values are all of a certain type.

```jsx
...

List.propTypes = {
  scores: PropTypes.objectOf(PropTypes.number)
}

<List scores={{
  jake: 9,
  tyler: 5,
  mikenzi: 10
}} />
```

#### PropTypes.oneOf

The prop being passed into the component must be one of a certain value.

```jsx
...

List.propTypes = {
  order: PropTypes.oneOf(['ascending', 'descending'])
  items: PropTypes.array,
}

<List items={users} order='ascending' />
```

#### PropTypes.oneOfType

The prop being passed into the component must be one of a certain type.

```jsx
...

Post.propTypes = {
  date: PropTypes.oneOfType([
    PropTypes.number,
    PropTypes.instanceOf(Date)
  ])
}

<Post date={new Date()} />
```

#### PropTypes.shape

The prop being passed into the component must have a certain shape. It’s similar to `PropTypes.exact` but, unlike `exact`, it allows you to include extra properties.

```jsx
...

Header.propTypes = {
  user: PropTypes.shape({
    name: PropTypes.string,
    age: PropTypes.number,
    submit: PropTypes.func,
  })
}

<Header
  user={{
    name: 'Tyler',
    age: 28,
    submit: () => ({}),
    authed: true
  }}
/>
```

#### PropTypes.string

The prop being passed into the component must be a string.

#### PropTypes.symbol

The prop being passed into the component must be a symbol.