#### Welcome! (Don’t skip this)

Learning anything new is always a significant endeavor. I don’t take for granted that there’s an opportunity cost in taking this course. Trust that every aspect of this course, from the text and videos to the quizzes and curriculum have been meticulously thought over and debated. The end result is what we strongly believe is the most in-depth and effective way to learn TypeScript that exists.

Before starting this course, you should have a good understanding of JavaScript. You’ll have the best learning experience if you’ve already completed the Modern JavaScript and Advanced JavaScript courses. That said, we’ll be going back to some basic JavaScript principles and looking at them in the context of TypeScript.

Before we dive into the material, there are some important housekeeping items to mention first.

1. I believe very strongly in creating a linear approach to learning. You should feel as if you’re walking up a staircase, not rock climbing. Logistically what this means is that this course is very in-depth. At times you may be tempted to skip certain texts or videos; don’t. Because of this linear approach, each new section builds upon the previous sections. If you’re already familiar with a certain topic, skim it, don’t skip it.
2. This course is designed to teach the fundamentals of TypeScript, but it doesn't cover any specifics about using TypeScript with frameworks, such as React. We're preparing a course that will cover TypeScript in React in depth, but if you complete the course, you should have enough familiarity to learn how to use TypeScript with other frameworks on your own.
3. Throughout the course, you’ll see various types of content. Here’s a breakdown.
   - The first introduction you’ll see to any new concept will be in a blog post/video format. This ensures you’re able to hyperfocus on the new concept without needing any external context. If you see a section without the () tags (listed below), it’s this format. You’re **not** expected to code along during these sections.
   - **(Project)** - At the end of the course, we’ll be building a project together over the course of several videos. Above each (Project) video will be a link to its coinciding branch as well as the specific commit on Github. **If you get stuck or your code isn’t working, check your code against the code in the commit.** You **are** expected to code along with these sections.
   - **(Practice)** - These are usually hosted on Code Sandbox and are designed to get you experience with a particular topic. These will typically involve us converting existing JavaScript code to TypeScript. You might be tempted to skip these; don’t.
   - **(Solution)** - These are the solution videos to the (Practice)s.
   - **(Quiz)** - Your typical quiz. If you find yourself guessing on the quiz problems, redo the section. If the quizzes seem “easy”, that’s a good sign.
   - **(Bonus)** - Bonus material that doesn’t fit into the flow of the normal course but is still important to know.
4. If you skipped #3, go read it.
5. Once the course is over, you’ll be given a link to the [curriculum](https://github.com/uidotdev/typescript-course-curriculum). This will be a project that you’ll be expected to build yourself. This will be the hardest part of the course but also the most rewarding.
6. You can take this course regardless of if you’re on Mac, Linux, or Windows. If you’re wondering, I’m running Node v12.18.3, TypeScript 4, Visual Studio Code, and Google Chrome 85. I recommend using Visual Studio Code, since it has TypeScript support built in, but if you want to use a different code editor, there are TypeScript plugins available for most major code editors.
7. If you haven’t already, visit our [official community](https://www.facebook.com/groups/tylermcginnis/) for subscribers. It’s where other members of the team and I will be hanging out answering support questions. Again, if your code isn’t working after following a video, very carefully compare it to the specific commit for that video before asking a question in the community.
8. If you run into any errors/typos/etc. related to the course material, you can make a comment on [this issue](https://github.com/uidotdev/typescript-course-curriculum/issues/1) and I’ll get it fixed.

Good luck!

[Alex](https://twitter.com/ralex1993)

