There are plenty of times when writing TypeScript that we have no way of knowing what the type of something is. Other times, the type signature might be so complicated that it’s easier for us to decrease the type safety and pretend like we are writing JavaScript. TypeScript gives us two special types that represent values that could be any type: `any` and `unknown`.

#### `any`

Like we’ve seen before, the `any` type turns off the type checker and removes all guarantees that our types are correct. `any` can represent any type. It can also be assigned to variables of any type and you can try to access any property on it as if it were an object. You can even call it as if it were a function! This is really handy, but it can also be dangerous, since it’s hard to know what a variables type is at runtime.

One place `any` is used is with network calls, since you can’t know what type the network call will return without adding an annotation.

```ts
async function getFruitList() {
  const response = await fetch("https://example.com/fruit");
  const fruitList = await response.json(); // const fruitList: any;
}
```

Since we can assign `any` values to variables with any type, we can add a type annotation to the variable we’re putting our results into and TypeScript will start type checking the value.

```ts
async function getFruitList() {
  const response = await fetch("https://example.com/fruit");
  let fruitList: string[];
  fruitList = await response.json(); // const fruitList: string[];
}
```

We have to be really careful any time we use `any`. If this network request returns anything other than a `string[]`, we might run into runtime type errors. For example, if it were an object instead of an array of strings, trying to use array methods like `.map()` would fail with the `fruitList.map is not a function` type error.

#### `unknown`

`unknown` is the type safe version of `any`. It still can represent any type, but since we don’t know what type it is specifically, TypeScript limits what we are able to do with values of this type. You can assign values of any type to a variable with the `unknown` type, but you can’t assign `unknown` values to variables of other types. We also can’t access properties on unknown values. Really, you can’t do anything with `unknown` except pass it around.

```ts
const unknownString: unknown = "What am I?";
let stringValue: string = unknownString; // Type Error: Type 'unknown' is not assignable to type 'string'.

const unknownNumber: unknown = 27;
let theAnswer = 15 + unknownNumber; // Type Error: Operator '+' cannot be applied to types 'number' and 'unknown'.
```

How is this even helpful? It might give us some type guarantees, but it also means we can’t do anything with our values. Fortunately, we can convince TypeScript that an `unknown` or `any` value actually has a more specific type by using a process called type narrowing. This involves doing runtime checks which either prove that a value is a specific type or prove that it is *not* a specific type.

In this case, we’ll use JavaScript’s `typeof` operator to prove that our value is a `number`.

```ts
const unknownNumber: unknown = 27;

let theAnswer: number = 0;
if (typeof unknownNumber === "number") {
  theAnswer = 15 + unknownNumber;
}
```

TypeScript understands that within that `if` statement, our `unknownNumber` variable is actually a `number`.

We’ll learn about more methods of type narrowing in future lessons.

#### `any` or `unknown`?

When working with any kind of dynamic data, such as user input or API responses, you’ll have some degree of uncertainty with the types of the data you use. That means at some point you’ll have to use `any` or `unknown`, but how do you know when to use one over the other?

`any` gives you the greatest flexibility, but absolutely no type safety, so it’s best to avoid `any` unless it is absolutely necessary. Using `unknown` doesn’t give you much flexibility, but it does maintain TypeScript’s type safety guarantee, and encourages you as the developer to add the necessary checks to narrow your value’s type to something more useful.

As a general rule of thumb, prefer `unknown` over `any` and use type narrowing to determine a more accurate type.