We’ve already learned that we can add type definitions for objects directly to the variable when we’re assigning it, like so:

```ts
const car: { wheels: number; color: string; electric: boolean } = {
  wheels: 4,
  color: "white",
  electric: true,
};
```

This defines the *shape* of the object, and tells us that our object has a number of wheels and a color. This works well for one-off objects, but what if we have many objects that all have the same shape? We’ll end up having lots of duplication.

Fortunately, we can construct a special type definition for our object using Interfaces. Interfaces let us create a named definition of the shape of an object that we can reuse. Once we’ve defined our interface type, we can use it as a type annotation.

```ts
interface Vehicle {
  wheels: number;
  color: string;
  electric: boolean;
}
const car: Vehicle = { wheels: 4, color: "white", electric: true };
const motorcycle: Vehicle = { wheels: 2, color: "red", electric: false };
const tractorTrailer: Vehicle = { wheels: 18, color: "blue", electric: false };
```

This also helps us tell the difference between two different objects that have a similar shape.

```ts
interface Fruit {
  name: string;
  color: string;
  calories: number;
  nutrients: Nutrient[];
}
interface Vegetable {
  name: string;
  color: string;
  calories: number;
  nutrients: Nutrient[];
}

let apple: Fruit;
let squash: Vegetable;
```

Just based on the types, we can see that an apple is a Fruit and a squash is a Vegetable. Also, notice that we can use interfaces as the base type for arrays as is the case with our `Nutrient[]` type.

We should recognize though, that because `Fruit` and `Vegetable` have the same shape, they are essentially equivalent. We could assign a `Fruit` variable to a `Vegetable` variable, and TypeScript wouldn’t complain. This is because Interfaces don’t create new types; they just assign names to a particular shape of types. This also means that a literal object with the same shape as a `Fruit` or `Vegetable` is also compatible.

```ts
let fruitBasket: Fruit[] = [];

const tomato = { name: "Tomato", color: "red", calories: 10, nutrients: [] };
fruitBasket.push(tomato); // It works.
```

We’ll talk about how to get around this behavior using Discriminating Unions in a future section.

#### Extending Interfaces

We can see that our Fruit and Vegetable Interfaces are very similar - we might as well just have one Interface and use it for both of them. But what if there were properties that were unique to either Fruit or Vegetable? To handle this, we could *extend* our interface. This copies the property definitions of one interface to another, which lets you reuse type definitions even more. Lets look at how we could improve our previous example.

```ts
interface EdibleThing {
  name: string;
  color: string;
}

interface Fruit extends EdibleThing {
  sweetness: number;
}

const apple: Fruit = { name: "apple", color: "red", sweetness: 80 };
```

#### Declaration Merging

Interfaces can be declared multiple times with different properties each time. When TypeScript compiles your code, it will combine the two interfaces together, allowing you to use properties from both of them.

```ts
interface Fruit {
  name: string;
}
interface Fruit {
  color: string;
  sweetness: number;
}

const apple: Fruit = { name: "apple", color: "red", sweetness: 80 };
```

#### Object Literal Assignment

When TypeScript is checking to see if a value can be assigned to an Interface, it is going to look at each of the properties to see if the types of those properties match up. When assigning one variable to another, it only checks the properties which are defined on the Interface, not all of the properties on the variable. That makes it possible to put more properties on a variable than are defined by the interface. We won’t be able to access those properties without getting a type error, but they are still there.

```ts
interface Fruit {
  name: string;
  color: string;
  sweetness: number;
}
let fruitBasket: Fruit[] = [];

const tomato: {
  name: string;
  color: string;
  sweetness: number;
  hasSeeds: boolean;
} = { name: "Tomato", color: "red", sweetness: 10, hasSeeds: true };
fruitBasket.push(tomato);

fruitBasket[0].hasSeeds; // Property 'hasSeeds' does not exist on type 'Fruit'.
console.log(fruitBasket[0]); // { name: "Tomato", color: "red", sweetness: 10, hasSeeds: true }
```

TypeScript has a special rule for object literals, however. If you try to assign an object literal to a specific type, TypeScript will warn you about any extra properties.

```ts
fruitBasket.push({
  name: "Banana",
  color: "yellow",
  sweetness: 70,
  hasSeeds: false,
});
// Argument of type '{ name: string; color: string; sweetness: number; hasSeeds: boolean; }' is not assignable to parameter of type 'Fruit'.
//    Object literal may only specify known properties, and 'hasSeeds' does not exist in type 'Fruit'.
```

TypeScript is telling us that we can’t push our object literal onto an array of `Fruit`s because we have an extra property which isn’t defined on the `Fruit` interface. Again, this is a special behavior for object literals that doesn’t apply when assigning one variable to another.

#### Optional Properties

Sometimes properties on an interface are entirely optional. Or we will assign them a value later, but don’t have that value right now. We can specify properties of interfaces as optional using a question mark.

```ts
interface Fruit extends EdibleThing {
  calories?: number;
}
```

In this case, we might not have the calorie count for our fruit before initially defining it, so we mark it as optional. Since we’re overriding the `calories` definition on our `EdibleThing` interface, `calories` become optional for any Fruit, but not any other `EdibleThing`. If we were to try to access `calories` on an instance of a `Fruit`, it would return `undefined`. If we had “strictNullChecks” enabled in our tsconfig.json, we would have to use type narrowing to make sure that our fruit actually had a value in that property.

```ts
interface Fruit extends EdibleThing {
  calories?: number;
}
let totalCalories = 0;
let apple: Fruit = { name: "Apple", color: "red" };

totalCalories += apple.calories; // Object is possibly 'undefined'.

if (apple.calories) {
  // "apple.calories" is now recognized as a number
  totalCalories += apple.calories; // This works
}
```

Incidentally, optional properties can be applied to regular object definitions too.

```ts
let pear: { name: string; calories?: number };
```

#### Indexable Types

If we know the property exists on the interface, we can just access it directly using dot (`.`) notation, as in `Math.random` or `Array.isArray`. But what if we are using a value in a variable to access a property dynamically? In JavaScript, we use square brackets to do that.

```js
const propertyName = "random";
Math[propertyName](); // 0.2524323113
```

That’s where Indexable Types come in. Using an *index signature*, we can provide types for anything that is accessed dynamically using a variable as the property name. When we define our index signature, we need to provide the type of the index itself (only `string` and `number` is allowed), an identifier for the index (we use “key” in this next example), and the type of the property’s value. We can mix index signatures with regular property signatures, so long as the key and value types match.

```ts
interface Fruit {
  [key: string]: string;
  name: string;
}

let apple: Fruit = {
  name: "Apple",
  ripeness: "overripe",
};
```

If we were to use an index of the wrong type, or if we were to use the wrong value, TypeScript would throw a type error.

```ts
let apple: Fruit = {
  name: "Apple",
  isRipe: true, // Type 'boolean' is not assignable to type 'string'.
  //     The expected type comes from the index signature.
};
```

Notice that the type error tells us both that we can’t use `boolean`s in place of `string`s and that the restriction is because of the index signature.

We can use `number`s for our index signatures to represent array-like objects.

```ts
interface FavoriteFruitList {
  [fruitOrder: number]: string;
}

const favoriteFruit: FavoriteFruitList = [];
favoriteFriends[1] = "Apple";

const thirdPlace = 3;
favoriteFriends[thirdPlace] = "Strawberry";
```

Notice that we can use any identifier we want for our index. In this case, we used “fruitOrder”. This doesn’t affect how the code works at all. This is really helpful for documenting what the index type actually represents.