#### `void`

`void` represents the absence of any type. It’s often used to indicate that a function doesn’t return anything.

```ts
function sendRequestAndForget() {
  fetch("https://example.com/addUser", { method: "POST" });
}

const output = sendRequestAndForget(); // const output: void;
```

It’s common to use this type when annotating callback functions that don’t return.

```ts
function performRequest(requestCallback: () => void) {
  // implementation goes here
}
```

It’s also a good idea to annotate the return type of your functions with `void` when you know that the function won’t return anything. This will give you a warning if you ever try to return something on accident.

Using it outside the context of function return values isn’t very helpful, since you can’t assign anything to `void` variables. Stick to using it with functions that return nothing.

#### `never`

We’ve seen what happens when we have a function that doesn’t return anything. What about functions that *can never* return anything.

```ts
function exception() {
  throw new Error("Something terrible has happened");
}

const output = exception(); // const output: void;

function loopForever() {
  while (true) {}
}
```

TypeScript has inferred the type of these functions as `void`. However, that’s not totally accurate. Our first function will never return because of the `throw` statement, and the second has an infinite loop. TypeScript gives us a type which lets us be more specific about this function’s return type.

```ts
function exception(): never {
  throw new Error("Something terrible has happened");
}

const output = exception();
// const output: never;

function loopForever(): never {
  while (true) {}
}

const loopOutput = loopForever();
// const loopOutput: never;
```

Instead of representing the absence of a type like `void`, `never` represents a value that can never occur. If we every try to access or modify a `never` variable, TypeScript will give us a warning.

Usually we have to explicitly annotate our function with the `never` type. There is one case where TypeScript will correctly infer the return type as `never`: returning the results of a `never` function.

```ts
function implicitNever() {
  return exception();
}
const output = implicitNever(); // const output: never;
```

There are other circumstances where we might see `never` show up. For example, we’ll see `never` again when looking at Intersection types, and later on when working with Conditional types. Just remember that `never` represents a type that will never exist at runtime.