#### Welcome! (Don’t skip this)

Learning anything new is always a significant endeavor. I don’t take for granted that there’s an opportunity cost in taking this course. Trust that every aspect of this course, from the text and videos to the quizzes and curriculum have been meticulously thought over and debated. The end result is what we strongly believe is the most in-depth and effective way to learn Redux that exists.

Before we dive into the material, there are some important housekeeping items to mention first.

1. I believe very strongly in creating a linear approach to learning. You should feel as if you’re walking up a staircase, not rock climbing. Logistically what this means is that this course is very in-depth. At times you may be tempted to skip certain texts or videos, don’t. Because of this linear approach, each new section builds upon the previous sections. If you’re already familiar with a certain topic, skim it, don’t skip it.

2. Throughout the course, you’ll see various types of content. Here’s a breakdown.

   - **(Project)** - Most of this course will be (Project) based. Throughout the course, we’ll build two projects together ([Todos/Goals](https://github.com/uidotdev/redux-course-1) & [Polls](https://github.com/uidotdev/redux-course-2)). Above each (Project) video will be a link to its coinciding branch as well as the specific commit on Github. **If you get stuck or your code isn’t working, check your code against the code in the commit.** You **are** expected to code along with these sections.
   - **(Quiz)** - Your typical quiz. If you find yourself guessing on the quiz problems, redo the section. If the quizzes seem “easy”, that’s a good sign.
   - **(Bonus)** - Bonus material that doesn’t fit into the flow of the normal course but is still important to know.

   Notice that, unlike our other courses, this course doesn’t include any Practice/Solution sections. The reason for that is because this course puts more emphasis on full projects rather than Practice/Solutions.

3. If you skipped #2, go read it.

4. Once the course is over, you’ll be given a link to the [curriculum](https://github.com/uidotdev/redux-course-curriculum). This will be the hardest part of the course but also the most rewarding.

5. You can take this course regardless of if you’re on Mac, Linux, or Windows. If you’re wondering, I’m running Node v13.12.0 and NPM v6.14.4.

6. If you haven’t already, request to join our [official private Facebook Group](https://www.facebook.com/groups/tylermcginnis/) for subscribers. It’s where other members of the team and I will be hanging out answering support questions. Again, if your code isn’t working after following a video, very carefully compare it to the specific commit for that video before asking a question in the facebook group.

7. If you run into any errors/typos/etc. related to the course material, you can make a comment on [this issue](https://github.com/uidotdev/redux-course-1/issues/4) and I’ll get it fixed.

Good luck!

[Tyler](https://twitter.com/tylermcginnis)

