## Introduction, Philosophy, and Tips

Learning anything new is always a significant endeavor. I don’t take for granted that there’s an opportunity cost in taking this course. Trust that every aspect of this course, from the text and videos to the quizzes and curriculum have been meticulously thought over and debated. The end result is what we strongly believe is the most in depth and effective way to learn React Hooks that exists.

Before we dive into the material, there are some important housekeeping items to mention first.

1. I believe very strongly in creating a linear approach to learning. You should feel as if you’re walking up a staircase, not rock climbing. Logistically what this means is that this course is very in-depth. At times you may be tempted to skip certain texts or videos, don’t. Because of this linear approach, each new section builds upon the previous sections. If you’re already familiar with a certain topic, skim it, don’t skip it.
2. Throughout the course, you’ll see various types of content. Here’s a breakdown.
   - The first introduction you’ll see to any new concept will be in a blog post/video format. This ensures you’re able to hyperfocus on the new concept without needing any external context. If you see a section without the () tags (listed below), it’s this format. You’re **not** expected to code along during these sections.
   - **(Practice)** - After every new topic, you’ll be given a set of practice problems to get your hands dirty. These are usually hosted on Code Sandbox and are designed to get you experience with a particular topic before you’re tasked with implementing it into the project. You might be tempted to skip these, don’t.
   - **(Solution)** - These are the solution videos to the (Practice)s.
   - **(Quiz)** - Your typical quiz. If you find yourself guessing on the quiz problems, redo the section. If the quizzes seem “easy”, that’s a good sign.
   - **(Project)** - Once you’ve learned (and practiced) everything you need to know about Hooks, we’ll walk through refactoring an existing React app. The app we’ll refactor is the [Github Battle app](https://tm.dev/react-course-project/) that we built in the “React” course. If you didn’t take that course but have experience with React, you’ll be fine. You’ll get more instructions when we start refactoring. You **are** expected to code along with these sections.
   - **(Bonus)** - Bonus material that doesn’t fit into the flow of the normal course but is still important to know.
3. If you skipped #2, go read it.
4. Once the course is over, you’ll be given a link to the [curriculum](https://github.com/tylermcginnis/react-hooks-course-curriculum). This will be the hardest part of the course but also the most rewarding.
5. You can take this course regardless of if you’re on Mac, Linux, or Windows. If you’re wondering, I’m running Node v11.10.0 and NPM v6.8.0.
6. If you haven’t already, request to join our [official private Facebook Group](https://www.facebook.com/groups/tylermcginnis/) for subscribers. It’s where other members of the team and I will be hanging out answering support questions. Again, if your code isn’t working after following a video, very carefully compare it to the specific commit for that video before asking a question in the facebook group.
7. If you run into any errors/typos/etc. related to the course material, you can make a comment on [this issue](https://github.com/tylermcginnis/react-hooks-course/issues/1) and I’ll get it fixed.

Good luck!

[Tyler](https://twitter.com/tylermcginnis)