TypeScript’s type checker is designed to be easy to pick up and use. In fact, it will automatically infer, or guess, the types of many of the values in your program without you having to explicitly assign them a type. Take this for example. When we assign a `string` literal to a variable, TypeScript infers that the type of that variable is `string`.

```ts
let fruitName = "Banana"; // let name: string
```

Conceptually, we often refer to variables as being buckets that hold values. If that is the case, TypeScript lets us say what type of thing a bucket can hold and warns us if we ever try to put something in the wrong bucket. Here, we have a `string` bucket called “name”. TypeScript knows it’s a `string` because we’re immediately putting a string inside it.

If we were to try to reassign one of these variables to an incorrect type, TypeScript would throw a type error.

```ts
let fruitName = "Banana";

fruitName = 1193; // Type Error: Type 'number' is not assignable to type 'string'.
```

TypeScript is telling us that we can’t assign a `number` to a `string` variable. That’s like trying to put oil in a bucket of water — they just don’t mix.

This kind of type inference works for all of the primitive types, like `number`s and `boolean`s. TypeScript also infers the types of object literals.

```ts
let fruit = {
  name: "Banana",
  color: "yellow",
  sweetness: 80,
  isRipe: true,
};

// let person: {
//     name: string;
//     color: string;
//     sweetness: number;
//     isRipe: boolean;
// }
```

If we pull properties of the object into their own variables, those variables will still have the correct type.

```ts
let { name, sweetness } = fruit;

name; // const name: string
sweetness; // const sweetness: number
```

When you create an array literal, TypeScript will infer the type of that array as well.

```ts
let fruitNames = ["Apple", "Banana"]; // let fruitNames: string[]
```

TypeScript uses two square brackets (`[]`) after the type to denote arrays of that type.

#### Contextual Type Inference

TypeScript can also infer the types of variables based on the context where the variable was created. Take this array method for example.

```ts
let fruitNames = ["Apple", "Banana"];

// This function makes every other item in our list uppercase.
const alternatedFruitNames = fruitNames.map((name, index) => {
  // (parameter) name: string
  // (parameter) index: number
  if (index % 2 === 0) {
    return name.toUpperCase();
  }
  return name;
});

alternatedFruitNames; // const alternatedFruitNames: string[]
```

TypeScript already knows that when we run `.map` on an array, the first parameter’s type will be the type of an array item and the second parameter will be a number representing the current index of the loop. In this case, we didn’t have to tell TypeScript anything about our types; it already knew.

We could even transform our array from one type to another and TypeScript will recognize the transformation, like with this function that changes the array of strings into an array of numbers.

```ts
let fruitNames = ["Apple", "Banana"];

const nameLength = fruitNames.map((name) => {
  return name.length;
});

nameLength; // const nameLength: number[]
```

If we were to create a function and pass that to our array’s map function, TypeScript can’t infer the parameter types anymore. This is because the function is no longer directly associated with the `.map` function, so TypeScript can’t directly know how our `transformName` function will be used.

```ts
function alternateUppercase(name, index) {
  // (parameter) name: any
  // (parameter) index: any
  if (index % 2 === 0) {
    return name.toUpperCase();
  }
  return name;
}

fruitNames.map(alternatedFruitNames);
```

TypeScript’s type inference will always fall back on the special `any` type. This type represents any other type and behaves as if we were using JavaScript. This can be handy when it’s difficult to give something the appropriate type, but we lose the guarantees which TypeScript’s type checker gives us. We want to avoid implicitly `any`s, so in our config we turned on the `noImplicitAny` flag. With our configuration, we would get a type error:

```ts
function alternateUppercase(name, index) {
  // (parameter) name: any - Type Error: Parameter 'name' implicitly has an 'any' type.
  // (parameter) index: any - Type Error: Parameter 'index' implicitly has an 'any' type.
}
```

TypeScript is warning us that this function has lost type safety because of the implicit `any` type. Over the next few lessons, we’ll learn how to give our variables and functions explicit type annotations so we can always have type safety.