One of the best things about TypeScript, as compared to many other typed languages, is it supports implicit type checking. TypeScript automatically reads our code and determines the types of values for us so we don’t have to annotate all of our types.

However, there are times that TypeScript isn’t able to infer our types. This is often because we are defining a variable before assigning a value to it. If TypeScript isn’t able to infer our types properly, it will set the type to `any`, which means less type safety for us. In the example below, `verbalFruitCount` has an `any` type because TypeScript can’t tell what type it is supposed to be based on the way we use it.

```ts
function getFruitBasketVerbalCount(fruitList) {
  let verbalFruitCount; // let verbalFruitCount: any
  if (fruitList.length > 5) {
    verbalFruitCount = "A lot of fruit.";
  } else {
    verbalFruitCount = "Some fruit.";
  }
  return verbalFruitCount;
}
```

We need to add type annotations to tell TypeScript what type a variable should hold. Adding explicit types can help us avoid using values in a way that would cause errors at runtime. We do this by placing a colon after the variable declaration followed by the type.

```ts
let favoriteDessert: string;
favoriteDessert = 6; // Type Error: Type 'number' is not assignable to type 'string'.
favoriteDessert = "Cheesecake";
```

Notice that the types are lowercase. This is the case for `string`, `number`, `boolean`, and most other primitive types. JavaScript has built-in objects for all of its types which use capital case, including `String`, `Number`, `Boolean`, and `Object`. These are not the same as lowercase types which we use with TypeScript and we should almost never use the uppercase versions when adding type annotations.

We can assign types to variables for other types.

```ts
let numberOfGuests: number;
let menuPlanned: boolean;
```

Notice that we haven’t assigned any value to these variables. In JavaScript, these variables have the value of `undefined`. In TypeScript, adding a type definition tells TypeScript that our variable *must* be that type. If we try using it before that variable is assigned a value, TypeScript will assume this is undesired behavior and give us an error.

```ts
let floralArrangement: string;
console.log(floralArrangement); // Variable 'floralArrangement' is used before being assigned.
```

If we actually do intend to use the value whether it is `undefined` or not, we can use a non-null assertion to tell TypeScript that we don’t care if our variable is used before being assigned. It looks like an exclamation point before the colon:

```ts
let floralArrangement!: string;
console.log(floralArrangement); // undefined
```

Array types are defined using the square bracket (`[]`) syntax we saw earlier. There is another syntax for defining arrays with angle brackets, but it’s use is discouraged.

```ts
let ingredients: string[]; // use this syntax
let recipes: Array<string>; // don't use this syntax
```

Object types can also be defined by placing a colon after the property names.

```ts
let menu: {
  courses: number;
  veganOption: boolean;
  drinkChoices: string[];
};
```

Make sure you don’t mistake these types for using object destructuring to assign properties to new variable names. They may look similar, but in one case we’re creating a variable and in the other case we’re adding type annotations.

```ts
// These are renamed variables, not types.
let { courses: orderedFood, veganOption: hasVegan } = menu;
```

`null` and `undefined` can also be assigned as a type, but that isn’t very helpful, since the variable will only ever be able to hold `null` or `undefined`. In a future lesson, we’ll talk about how we can do more useful things with `null` and `undefined` using Union types.

We can also add annotations to a value that already has an `any` type. This restores TypeScript’s type checking to that value. One place this might be necessary is when performing network requests.

```ts
async function getFruitList() {
  const response = await fetch("https://example.com/fruitList");
  const fruitList = await response.json(); // const fruitList: any;
  const typeFruitList: string[] = fruitList; // const typeFruitList: string[];
  return typeFruitList;
}
```