Functions have a lot more moving parts than variables and objects, like parameters and return values. We can add type annotations to any of these things.

#### Typing parameters

Adding type annotations to function parameters is very similar to adding types to variables. Let’s return to our array map example.

```ts
let fruitNames = ["Apple", "Banana"];

function alternateUppercase(name, index) {
  // (parameter) name: any
  // (parameter) index: any
  if (index % 2 === 0) {
    return name.toUpperCase();
  }
  return name;
}

const alternatedFruitNames = fruitNames.map(alternateUppercase);
```

Since TypeScript can’t infer the types of our function’s parameters, we have to add the types manually. This looks very similar to adding types to variables - we use a colon (`:`) after the parameter name, followed by the type.

```ts
function alternateUppercase(name: string, index: number) {
  if (index % 2 === 0) {
    return name.toUpperCase();
  }
  return name;
}
```

Now TypeScript knows that our function takes a string and a number as parameters. What would happen if we accidentally used a function with the wrong types?

```ts
function doubleNumber(num: number) {
  return num * 2;
}

const alternatedFruitNames = fruitNames.map(doubleNumber);
// Types of parameters 'num' and 'value' are incompatible.
//     Type 'string' is not assignable to type 'number'.
```

TypeScript threw a type error. It knows that the values of the array are `string`s, so when we try to use a function that accepts `numbers`s instead of `string`s, it will warn us that something is not right.

#### Return Values

We can also add types for the value that a function returns.

```ts
function headsOrTails(): boolean {
  return Math.random() > 0.5;
}
```

This function most definitely returns a boolean value. Most of the time TypeScript will infer the return type by what is returned, but adding an explicit return type makes it so we can’t accidentally return a value of the wrong type.

#### Async Functions

By definition, an async function is a function which returns a JavaScript Promise. Just like arrays, there is a special syntax for defining the type of the value which is wrapped in a promise. We place the wrapped type in angle brackets and put `Promise` in front of it.

```ts
async function getFruitList(): Promise<string[]> {
  const response = await fetch("https://example.com/fruit");
  const fruitList: string[] = await response.json();
  return fruitList;
}
```

If we were to try annotating this function with just `string[]`, TypeScript would warn us that we need to use the `Promise` type wrapper.

#### Function Type Expressions

What do we do when we have a function that takes another function (often called a callback) as a parameter? For example, if I were to create a type definition for an array `map` function, I would have to pass a callback function as one of the parameters.

```ts
function mapNumberToNumber(list: number[], callback) {
  // (parameter) callback: any
  // Implementation goes here
}
```

Our `callback` parameter has an `any` type, which means we could call it as a function if we wanted to. However, we want to avoid `any`, since using it leads to less type safety.

We can create a function type annotation using a special syntax. It might look like an arrow function, but it’s defining a type.

```ts
function mapNumberToNumber(list: number[], callback: (item: number) => number) {
  // (parameter) callback: any
  // Implementation goes here
}
```

Then, when we call the function, TypeScript can check the callback that we pass in to make sure it matches the type signature we used.

```ts
const doubledNumbers = mapNumberToNumber([1, 2, 3], (num) => num * 2);
```

In this case, `num` is inferred to be a `number` because TypeScript is able to determine the type from the type annotation we added to the callback parameter.

#### Optional and Default Parameters

TypeScript expects that every parameter of a function will be passed to it when the function is called, even if its value is `undefined`. This can be a problem when we don’t want to require the user to pass in every single parameter every time.

```ts
function logOutput(message: string, yell: boolean) {
  if (yell) {
    console.log(message.toUpperCase());
    return;
  }
  console.log(message);
}

logOutput("Hey! Listen!");
// TypeError: Expected 2 arguments, but got 1.
//  An argument for 'yell' was not provided.
```

We can tell TypeScript that a parameter is optional by adding a `?` right before the type annotation.

```ts
function logOutput(message: string, yell?: boolean) {
  if (yell) {
    console.log(message.toUpperCase());
    return;
  }
  console.log(message);
}

logOutput("Hey! Listen!"); // "Hey! Listen!"
```

We didn’t need to include the second `yell` parameter because we marked it as optional.

We can also mark parameters as optional by giving them a default value. TypeScript will infer the type of the parameter from the default value.

```ts
function logOutput(message: string, yell = true) {
  if (yell) {
    console.log(message.toUpperCase());
    return;
  }
  console.log(message.toUpperCase());
}

logOutput("Hey! Listen!"); // "HEY! LISTEN!"
```

#### Spread Parameters

When we aren’t sure how many parameters will be passed to a function, we can use the rest syntax, which gives us all of the parameters in a list. If all of the extra parameters are the same type, we can easily add an annotation to the spread parameters.

```ts
function logManyOutput(...messages: string[]) {
  messages.forEach((message) => {
    logOutput(message);
  });
}
```