Stick with me here because this section is going to get a little dense. However, it’s necessary to set a solid foundation of the JavaScript type system before jumping into TypeScript.

All programming languages use types of some kind to know how to represent and operate on the bits of code that pass through the processor as the program is executed. The types and type operators for JavaScript are the same in TypeScript, so we’ll go over each of them to make sure we’re familiar.

When comparing types in JavaScript, it can be helpful to use the `typeof` operator. When placed in front of a value, it gives you a string representation of that value’s type.

```js
typeof true; // "boolean"

let fruitName = "Banana";
typeof fruitName; // "string"
```

There are six primitive data types in JavaScript: `Boolean`, `Number`, `BigInt`, `String`, `Symbol`, and `undefined`. A primitive type represents a single specific type of value and is immutable, meaning we can’t directly modify its value, we can only reassign a different value to a variable. Let’s go over each of them individually.

#### `Boolean`

`Boolean`s represent values that are either `true` or `false`. These are used for conditionals and logical operations using the AND (`&&`), OR (`||`) and NOT (`!`) operators.

In JavaScript, some values of different types are considered “falsy”, which means if you were to cast the value into a `Boolean` using two NOT operators or with the `Boolean()` built-in function, it would become `false`, where every other value would become `true`. I’ll point out the “falsy” values for each type.

#### `Number`

`Number`s in JavaScript are stored as floats, which means you use the same type for whole integers and decimals. JavaScript also has values for `Infinity`, `-Infinity`, and `NaN`, or “Not a Number”.

Both `0` and `NaN` are “falsy” values. `NaN` is a little confusing. It’s used to represent values that shouldn’t exist or are imaginary, like `Math.sqrt(-1)`. Even though `NaN` literally means “Not a Number”, it’s type is still `Number`. You also can’t check if a `NaN` value is equal to `NaN`

```js
let imaginaryNumber = Math.sqrt(-1); // NaN

typeof imaginaryNumber; // "number"
imaginaryNumber === NaN; // false
```

To check if a `Number` is `NaN`, you can use the `Number.isNaN()` method.

```js
Number.isNaN(imaginaryNumber); // true
```

#### `BigInt`

Since `Number`s are limited in how big they can be, JavaScript has a separate type for very large integers. `BigInt`s were introduce to JavaScript in ES2019 and are created by appending `n` to the end of a `Number` integer.

```js
typeof 1337n; // "bigint"
1337n === 1337; // false
```

The `BigInt` value `0n` is “falsy”

#### `String`

`String`s store text data. You can create string literals with single quotes ('), double quotes ("), and backticks (`). `String`s in JavaScript are immutable, which means once a string is created, you cannot mutate it to change it. An empty string (`""`) is the only falsy string value.

#### `Symbol`

`Symbol`s are unique and immutable, which means each `Symbol` is not equal to any other `Symbol`. You can give a `Symbol` a description when you create it, but that is not required.

```js
let symbol1 = Symbol("Apple");
let symbol2 = Symbol("Apple");

symbol1 === symbol2; // false

typeof symbol1; // "symbol"
```

#### `undefined` & `null`

`undefined` is its own types, is falsy. `undefined` represents uninitialized values, including properties of `object`s that don’t have a value.

`null` is an extra type used to represent the absence of value. Due to a bug in JavaScript, checking the type of `null` with `typeof` will return `object`. It’s kind of silly, but there are websites out there that expect this behavior. As [Hyrum’s Law](https://www.hyrumslaw.com/) states, if there’s something wrong with the system, someone will come to depend on that flaw. Fortunately, you can compare `null` to itself.

```js
typeof undefined; // "undefined"

let nullish = null;
typeof nullish; // "object"
nullish === null; //true
```

Bugs are often created when JavaScript tries to access `object` properties on a `null` or `undefined` value. Later on we’ll see how TypeScript can help us avoid those bugs.

------

JavaScript also has structural types, which means we can construct different shapes of the primitive types to represent more complex data structures.

#### `Object`

`Object` is the most versatile type in JavaScript. An `Object` can have any number of properties, each with its own value. This allows you to create unique and interesting data structures. `Object`s typically use `String`s for indexing the properties, but `Symbol`s can be used as well. A property’s value can be any type.

All of the other types we’ve looked at so far can be directly compared by value, but objects (and object-like values) are compared by reference. This means two objects that have the same shape aren’t considered equal.

```js
let car = {
  wheels: 4,
  color: "red",
};
let car2 = {
  wheels: 4,
  color: "red",
};

car === car2; // false

let carClone = car;
car === carClone; // true

typeof car; // "object"
```

#### `Array`

`Array`s are technically the same type as `Object`s, but they are different enough that we’ll treat them as separate types. `Array`s store data, but use `Number`s instead of `String`s for indexing properties. This means that the data stored in `Array`s is ordered.

We can check if a value is an array using the `Array.isArray()` method.

```js
let myArray = [1, 2, 3];

typeof myArray; // "object"
Array.isArray(myArray); // true
```

#### `Function`

Functions are defined blocks of code that you can call from elsewhere in your program. They can take parameters and have a return value. One of the best things about JavaScript is that functions can be treated as values. That means you can pass them between functions or use them whenever you want. That means that `Function`s are their own type as well.

```js
typeof function () {}; // "function"
typeof (() => {}); // "function
```

#### Classes

Classes were introduced to JavaScript in ES2015 and serve as syntactic sugar around JavaScript’s prototypical inheritance system. We’ll talk more about classes later in the course, but for now we can look at the types that classes generate.

Classes can be defined with properties and given a constructor which initializes instances of that class. Within the class, we can use the special `this` variable to access properties on the class instance. Since the class constructor is what we call when creating a new instance of a class, the type of a class is `Function`. Instances of a class are `Object`s.

```js
class Car {
  constructor(wheels, color) {
    this.wheels = wheels;
    this.color = color;
  }
}

typeof Car; // "function"

let motorcycle = new Car(2, "black");
typeof motorcycle; // "object"
```

If we want to see if an object is an instance of a specific class, we can use the `instanceof` operator.0

```js
motorcycle instanceof Car; // true
```

We’ll look at classes more in-depth in a later section.